# PowerMeter
###The bigger story
This project was born when I didn't want my P1 data to get saved in the cloud. To be honest, The energy net manager already has a snapshot of my data in order to be able to do billing of the consumed power. You may give permission to store your data hourly or daily. The smart meter is capable of creating measurements every 10 seconds or even 1 second for modern meters. That is the granularity I'm interested in.

With measurements generated every second, you create a lot of data. This data could be used to analyze your electrical consumer devices. How often is a fridge active, how much power is it consuming. Same for every device in your home. With all the data and some artificial intelligence, you may detect irregular behavior and take actions. Most switch detections need to be tagged by a human person. Light bulbs will most probably have the same power characteristics. Only the person knows which device was switched on. These markers can be stored in the backend. When a lot of these markers are stored, the system will eventually know exactly which device was switched on for how long and how much power was consumed. Storing these markers will be a feature in the front-end of the Domiot system.
 
The data generated by the smart meter had to be stored local when desired. 

With this project and some generally available hardware, you could read your smart meter and store the data where you want.
There is also a measurement storage backend project (TODO reference) that is able to store the data in a safe and private store.
If you want the store to be available in the cloud, then just move your backend server from your home to a VPS.

Being able to choose where your services are hosted is the main reason why MQTT was chosen as communication layer.

### This application
* Is a Java based P1 smart meter reader
* It reads the serial interface that is configured in the application.yml
* At this interface, a smart p1 meter is connected via a FTDI converter (inverted signal) to a Computer that runs Java and 'cu'. Raspberry Pi is an excellent choice.
* FTDI HW connection, see https://ic.tweakimg.net/camo/8aff4287e01cbd940a4a1aeb5b0f8aa98bd84928/?url=http%3A%2F%2Fbolneze.nl%2Frj11.jpg
* This meter produces a p1 datagram each x seconds.
* The data is read, parsed and pushed to an mqtt broker (configurable in application.yml)
* Currently, only produced and consumed power are sent as well as the consumed gas
* Repeated values for a sensor, type combinations are ignored. A value latch is used. This latch is currently reset by a timer loop. The timer period is
  configurable.
* Readings are buffered in a blocking queue. The capacity is configurable but defaults to 10000 readings. At max, 7 readings are produced per 10 seconds. 7 * 6 * 60 = 2520 readings per hour. So little less than 4 hours of readings are stored when the mqtt broker is not reachable any longer. Note that when the mqtt connection is resumed, all readings are processed without delay. Note that for v2 generation of power meters the capacity is 1/10th (a datagram every second)
* Initial mqtt connection setup is done only once. When the connection is not available at startup time, the application will exit.
* The NIC adapter to bind to is configurable. The MAC address of the NIC will be used to identify the sensor in the domotics system.
* The serial port reader operates in it's own process. Next to the main thread there are two other threads, one for creating sensor value readings out of the P1 datagrams, the second thread is responsible for pushing the sensor values to the mqtt broker. 

### Wishlist
* report health
* error handling
* openhab binding
  * Check whether to adopt to an existing mqtt binding or to create a new one
* read configuration from a rest endpoint instead of config file
  * Make it possible to reload operational parameters (Bootstrap process required.)
  * Considerations:
    * Necessary to keep the reading process running during update in order not to lose data?
    * Switch to redis storage when mqtt link is broken and recover when link is available again
    * websocket required for reload event? or polling?
* redis for backup storage
* choose whether redis or mqtt should be used, or both. Some users have different needs when it comes to interfacing
* Create connectors for other domotics systems
* Less manual steps in the build process (a.o. versioning, Git actions)
* Jenkins and Nexus repo manager
* Behavior driven tests (Cucumber)

## Current issues:

* Unit test coverage is poor
* TOPIC gas is not sent as TOPIC gas but under topic POWER

## Release notes
0.5.3
* Using cu as serial port reader. Major refactoring in the serial reading process

0.5.2 Released on 2022-06-05
* Major dusting off and dependency upgrades. No functions added.

0.5.1 Released on 2019-02-10

* Fixed a bug in the P1 definition; delivered and consumed power were mixed up for T1, prod and T2
* Made the internal storage queue size configurable

0.5 Released on 2019-01-22

* First final release

# Handy lines
scp build/libs/lnb-powermeter-0.5.2-SNAPSHOT.jar &lt;user&gt;@&lt;ip-address&gt;:&lt;destination-folder&gt;

